---
title: Styling with Tailwind
description: How to apply custom styles to the <SocialShare> component with Tailwind.
navigation:
    icon: i-simple-icons-tailwindcss
---

::caution
**Tailwind v4 Required:** Starting from version **v2.0.0**, this module requires **Tailwind v4**. It's no longer compatible with Tailwind v3 (used also by the current version of [@nuxtjs/tailwindcss](https://nuxt.com/modules/tailwindcss) module). Keep reading for more info.
::

## Getting Started

Styling with Tailwind is straightforward: simply apply your desired classes to the `<SocialShare>` component.

The component provides a `--color-brand` CSS variable that contains each network's brand color. You can use this variable in your Tailwind classes:

```vue
<SocialShare
    network="facebook"
    :styled="true"
    class="rounded-full bg-transparent text-(--color-brand) border-2 border-(--color-brand)"
/>
```

## Tailwind v4

This module uses a `@layer components` CSS layer, integrating with Tailwind v4 setup to ensure proper specificity and priority.

Tailwind v4 layers are ordered this way:

-`@layer theme, base, components, utilities;`

`<SocialShare>` hooks into this setup, allowing it ot override basic resets from the `base` layer while still being further customizable by utilities in the `utilities` layer.

## Tailwind v3

Nuxt Social Share v2 is no longer compatible with Tailwind v3 and earlier.

Tailwind v3 used to have a "hacky" non-native CSS layer implementation that conflicts with proper layers usage. This may cause build errors similar to:

```
[plugin:vite:css] [postcss] /path/to/project/node_modules/@stefanobartoletti/nuxt-social-share/dist/runtime/SocialShare.vue?vue&type=style&index=0&lang.css:2:1: @layer components is used but no matching @tailwind components directive is present.
```

Unfortunately, the different internal setup of Tailwind v3 and v4 made it impossible to keep compatibility with both versions a the same time. When updating the Nuxt Social Share module, the current v4 version has been prioritized, discarding support for the outdated v3.

**Upgrading to Tailwind v4 is the recommended solution**

## `@nuxtjs/tailwindcss` module

The [Nuxt Tailwind](https://nuxt.com/modules/tailwindcss) module is still using Tailwind v3 currently, so everything above applies here too.

You can handle this in two ways:

1. **(Recommended)** Remove the Tailwind module and manually upgrade Tailwind to v4. Tailwind v4 has a more streamlined architecture and doesn't require a dedicated module for optimal integration.

2. If your setup doesn't allow you to remove the Tailwind module, stay on **Nuxt Social Share v1.x** until the module will support Tailwind v4 (You can monitor the [module's Tailwind v4 compatibility progress](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/tailwindcss/issues/919))

## Further reading

- [CSS `@layer` rule (MDN)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer)
- [Tailwind v4 CSS layers](https://tailwindcss.com/blog/tailwindcss-v4#designed-for-the-modern-web)
- [Tailwind v3 → v4 upgrade guide](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/upgrade-guide)

- [`@nuxtjs/tailwindcss` v4 compatibility discussion](https://github.com/nuxt-modules/tailwindcss/issues/919)
